So, this is something that it's got
its roots in technology that comes out of the early 90s,
which is Continuous Integration.
However, the tools to really be able to effectively do this really came about with
the rise of Jenkins and other platforms to perform these actions.
We are going to be covering
the core components of this and the techniques of how to do it,
and some of the best practices of how we do CI and CD in the DevOps space.
So first up, let's talk a little bit about what came before CI and CD.
Before we had tools to automate this process,
a lot of this was just done of deploying binaries to servers or to desktops.
This came with a lot of brittleness of,
if you deploy it,
it would take a lot of work to put it there,
and then to deploy a new release would take substantially more work.
So you get into this cycle where
it's compounding your complexity with creating new environments,
with managing these environments,
and with giving huge variety of people access to these platforms and these technologies.
So that's really where we have the need for a tool like Jenkins to manage these.
With Jenkins, we have a huge number of plugins that
allow us to store our configurations as code,
a law in GitHub,
and to create pipelines,
which we're going to do with a Blue Ocean.
There are other tools that we will not be covering,
but they do similar stuff with pipelines.
Not to mention, you don't need Blue Ocean,
you can do pipelines just with the core Jenkins platform as well.
So next up, we're going to talk about just,
what is the definition of CI and CD?
Continuous Integration is a development practice,
where developers integrate code into a shared repository frequently,
preferably seven times a day.
Each integration can then be verified by automated build and automated test.
Then for Continuous Deployment is a strategy
for software releases wherein any code commit that
passes the automated testing phase is
automatically released into the production environment,
making changes that are visible to the software users.
So this is from Search Operations Tech Target.
So let's just take the 10000 foot overview on what that means.
So this slide is to give you a diagram of first starting with the user,
which is you managing your code.
You check in a change into
a Git Repository for a new feature that you've added to your product.
Then this pull request is reviewed by two of your colleagues,
and this then gets merged back into your Repository,
and Jenkins is able to start the pipeline.
So we have our little pipeline icon.
Next up comes our cute Linton process,
which Linton is when we're checking for any kind of
problem in the code you've made like a type of some sort.
After we've successfully Linton it,
we want a security check it,
and finally we want to actually deploy it,
being the final step here.
This is mainly for our development and our staging environments.
Our production environments usually don't have
continuous deploy because that's considered too dangerous.
So this is what we're dealing with as
the technologies that are involved with Jenkins and CI/CD.
So next up, we're going to start getting deep into pipelines.